Data integration has two sides
one side is data producers (source) and the other side is data consumers (target)
Data integration refers to the process and technologies that move data from the source to the target
On it's way, the data is usually transformed in order to meet business requirements
The data can go through multiple "source to target" layers" (from operational source into staging area,
from staging area into data warehouse, etc.)

ETL(Extract Load Transfrom) refers to the data integration approach where data is extracted from Source systems,
then goes through transformation process and ends up by loading in a Target System. ETL is typical for data
warehouse systems.
1. Extract data from Sources
2. Transform data to required format
3. Load data into target

ELT is similaar to ETL, it is a data integration approach where data is extracted from Source systems, then loaded
without an transformation. Transformation is performed in the target system.
1. Extract data from sourcers
2. load data is loaded
3. transform data to required format

Batch vs. Real Time Data Integration
2 ways to to data integration
In batch a large group of transactions are collected and the data is processed during a single run
Batch Considerations:
-because of a large volume of data, the process must run when resources are less busy, usually overnight
-batch processing postpones access to data, requires close supervision, and ther is possibility for downtime
-due to postponed access data you miss out on the knowled of your business
-problems that occur during batch can delay the entire process
In Real-Time Processing, small groups of transactions are processed on demand
Real Time considerations:
-the advantage is that there is instantaneous acces to data, runs with fewer resource
-you have knowledge of your business as transactions occur
-if an error occurs, it can be handled immediately
-it is more difficult to design real-time processsing\
-systems with real time processing require more effort to design, but can be better

Data Integration Process
Data integration is closely related to application development(applications that move data from source to target). Data integration
should be part of the Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC)
The Software Developement Life Cycle refers to the process of planning, creating, teting, and deploying an informative system

Role of a Data integration Specialist
Person responsible to perform activites associated with data integration. They wrk closely with Business owners,
data stewards, technical owners, data custodians, and Data Architects. The responsibilites are the data design
and implementation of data integration applications, defining mapping specifications, design and implemation of data integration.

Data Integration Technology Support
data integration tools: real time processing, batch processing, chage data capture, transformatinos
key features: ability to perform real time and batch processing, ability to perfrom data capture,
abilitty to perform powerful transformation on structured and unstructured data, ability for comprehensive
error handling operations

Key takeaways:
-Data integrations refers to data movement from data producers to data consumers
-Most common data integrations are ETL and ELT
-Data integration can be based on batch or real time processing
-Data integration specialist are the key people in data integration
-key features of data integration tools are related to ability to do both batch and real-time processing


